alert alert leave all your things behind
and find
safety immediately the southern
continent has just erupted
this is not a drill you see people
running around
screaming their heads out cars bumping
into each other
the whole nation is in panic you're on
the southern coast of australia
but the sky is black and it stretches
further than your eye can see
your friend in southern india calls you
and says the same thing
there's ash in the sky and it's raining
down on you
you hear rumbling in the distance and it
isn't even your stomach to blame
everyone starts running inland the black
clouds swallow up everything in sight
cars trees buildings you're unable to
see
anything in front of you everyone's
confused and scared
a tsunami breaches the shores covering
everything in its path
this is the great antarctic eruption
antarctica is that big continental
desert covered in ice
in fact it's technically the largest
desert in the world
it's also covered with a whole lot of
volcanoes
just chilling around scientists
discovered that there are 138 volcanoes
in antarctica
91 of which are hidden beneath the icy
surface
and 47 on top and there might even be
more
but most of these volcanoes are dormant
and for a volcano to be dormant
it has to be fast asleep for the last 50
000 years
the last volcano eruption was mount
erebus in the western part of the
continent
it's the most active volcano in the
south side of the world
and is roughly 12 500 feet above sea
level
that's as high as stacking the burj
khalifa on top of itself
five times there's a whole bunch of
these volcanoes stretched across the
entire continent
in the most concentrated region the
volcanoes spread the distance equivalent
to that
between canada and mexico and that's not
even all of them
scientists have warned that if any of
these interior ice-contained volcanoes
were to
erupt they'd melt the western antarctic
part of the land
and increase the spill of ice into the
ocean it would raise the sea level
and flood many endangered lands that are
already at risk
and that's not mentioning the tectonic
plates shifting underneath the surface
which allows some of the magma to
squeeze its way to some surfaces
it's scary enough to expect what would
happen if a huge volcano erupted
but what would happen if all the
volcanoes in the antarctic continent
erupted at the same time if you were one
of those scientists on a boat
on their way to conduct some experiments
you would begin to feel
unease you'd notice the water carrying a
bit more of the current than usual
you look at your fellow scientists and
they too have the same look on their
faces
as you land at the shore and take out
all your tools and equipment
things don't seem normal but the work
has to be done
you head to the base and settle in
business as usual
in the barren land you see some emperor
penguins waddling around
hunting playing and doing penguin stuff
but as you look around you notice that
the penguins all suddenly head to the
ocean
and many of the wild antarctic birds
also begin flying towards the horizon
weird then the ground starts shaking
and behind you appears a tower of smoke
reaching to the sky
the ashes from a volcano can be very
harmful for anyone with lung conditions
and even healthy people the gases that
come with it
are usually blown away quickly but are
also harmful to humans
and cause irritation to the eyes and
throat but if you're nearby
you may need a gas mask or better yet
evacuate the gases and ashes are the
most dangerous part of a volcanic
eruption
even though the lava spewing and
explosion may seem scary
the smoke in the sky can spread far away
and even halt planes flying around
you look to your fellow scientists and
they signal to you that it's time to go
make like the penguins and swim off but
the waters are extremely rough
and the rumbling is getting louder and
louder suddenly
you see more smoke wafting towards the
sky but from
different locations back to the boat
it's sad to say but leaving all that
equipment was needed to survive
carrying all that stuff would have
slowed you down but
you're safe for now looking behind you
you see a dark smoke screen covering
every corner of the continent
volcanoes have different types of
eruptions it's not just the
shooting out lava into the sky scenario
they can range from aggressive to calm
some spew out lava
and some don't this all depends on the
environment
the number of gases contained or if
there's any groundwater present
and even the chemistry of the magma so
chances are you'd be seeing all various
types of explosions around you
you're out of antarctica's mainland but
it's surrounded by lagoons and giant ice
caps all around
you're doing your best to maneuver
around them but the ash is falling down
all around the sky is dark as the smoke
blocks out the sun
volcanic ash comes in all sizes and can
cause different damage
from as little as lung and eye
irritation to smothering vegetation and
crops
and that's just the thing more often
than not these volcanic ashes
are extremely thick they can even
collapse the roofing of some buildings
if a lot of ash is accumulated not to
mention blocking roads and compromising
aquatic life
and that flash in the sky isn't your
imagination
ash clouds in the sky are so powerful
that they create
electrical fields that can create
lightning storms
and these bad boys can interfere with
radio signals and even start fires
also these clouds are extremely hot on
their own
as if that lava flow isn't enough to
start any fires
oh well but there are some volcanoes
that are explosive
and along with the ashes flying around
there are flying rocks
this overheated rubble comes striking
down like meteoroids from the sky
and can be pretty dangerous you see the
rocks hit the surrounding ice caps and
water around you
as you reach a somewhat safe zone you
see the volcanoes all nicely lined up
behind you
spewing all that thick red gooey fire
but the water tide isn't exactly
peaceful
volcanoes near oceans and seas can even
cause tsunamis
great submarine earthquakes shake the
ocean bottom
and produce large powerful waves and
don't even think about surfing on them
if there are volcanoes spitting out red
hot lava then why hasn't all the ice in
antarctica melted
the answer lies beneath the earth's
surface
tectonic plates barely move underneath
there it's pretty safe to say
they're stable so for such a large piece
of land
the coldest continent on earth the few
active volcanoes are insufficient to
melt all the ice
the real reason why the ice is melting
and water levels are rising
is the warm ocean current around
antarctica
but this time they're all erupting at
the same time
with the volcanoes discovered who knows
how many are left underground
covered in ice and that's the scary part
some of these volcanoes are hidden so
deep beneath the icy surface
that they now heat up from the lava
spewing out
the ice begins to destabilize everything
around
the ice on the ridges begins cracking
open little by little
like giant cans of soda bursting open
lava
shoots from the snowy depths causing
enormous cracks in the ground
and then magma finds its way to the
party
this uninvited guest will begin to melt
the surroundings
causing the ground to destabilize even
more
slowly but surely the ice around
antarctica will melt
and if all the ice is melted the earth's
sea level would rise by around 230 feet
that means coastal cities would be
submerged underwater
the ocean currents would be flipped
around and hurricanes and typhoons would
not want to take a break
marine life would be in danger and many
small islands would completely disappear
and not to mention the smoke in the air
that would travel around the world
halting many flights in the southern
region and if the winds were strong
enough
the whole world the economies would flop
and a worldwide panic would begin health
emergencies
all year round yeah a real nice picture